DOCS-11518-mqtt3-first-version-kt (#1579)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: mqtt3/1.0.0/modules/ROOT/pages/index.adoc

In the following example, you configure the keep alive internal time units (`keepAliveInterval` and `keepAliveIntervalUnit`) to set the maximum period of time that the connection is kept alive without any messages being exchanged between the client and broker. You also configure the maximum number of in-flight (`maxInFlight`) messages allowed:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<mqtt3:config name="MQTT_Config">
    <mqtt3:connection clientId="smart-bentley-123" maxInFlight="60" keepAliveInterval="60" keepAliveIntervalUnit="SECONDS">
        <mqtt3:connection-settings >
            <mqtt3:connection-string-mqtt3-authenticator url="tcp://127.0.0.1:1883" />
        </mqtt3:connection-settings>
    </mqtt3:connection>
</mqtt3:config>
----

== Set a Client ID

The client ID is mandatory because it identifies an MQTT connection to a broker. Define a meaningful name that uniquely identifies a client or device that connects to an MQTT broker and not a random string. Set the client ID (`clientId`) in the connection element (`<mqtt3:connection>`)  of the configuration.

== Specify a Connection Protocol

> MQTT supports protocols, which can be used to connect to and exchange MQTT messages with the broker. Configure the protocol in the connection string of the connector configuration and will default to TCP if none is specified.

Reviewer: The last sentence is ungrammatical. Maybe say this? Configure the protocol in the connection string of the connector configuration. The default is TCP.

* TCP
* SSL/TLS
* WS
* WSS
* LOCAL

== Configure Credentials For Authentication

Authentication credentials are optional, but you can provide a username and a password if it is required. You can also provide a client certificate to authenticate the connection by setting a TLS context.

In the following example, you configure the authentication in the `<mqtt3:connection>` by providing a basic `username` and `password`:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<mqtt3:config name="MQTT_Config">
    <mqtt3:connection clientId="smart-bentley-123" username="crowley" password="theDemon666">
        <mqtt3:connection-settings >
            <mqtt3:connection-string-mqtt3-authenticator url="tcp://127.0.0.1:1883" />
        </mqtt3:connection-settings>
    </mqtt3:connection>
</mqtt3:config>
----

> == Provide a Fail Over Server List

Reviewer: Failover should be one word when used as an adjective (like here) unless the product has it otherwise.

There are certain deployment schemas that consist of multiple brokers working together in order to provide clients with several connection endpoints. When there is more than one available server that the client can connect to, there are two possible scenarios: either each MQTT server is operating separately or they might be working together and sharing a state (cluster mode), in which case, you might want to specify how the MQTT client will behave in the event of a reconnection.

When you provide a fail over server list, the connector can iterate over it until it successfully establishes a connection with one of the provided endpoints.

> In the following example, the `<mqtt3:fail-over-servers>` and `<mqtt3:fail-over-url` configurations look like this:

Reviewer: failover

= MQTT3 Connector 1.0 - Mule 4

Support Category: https://www.mulesoft.com/legal/versioning-back-support-policy#anypoint-connectors[Select]

> Anypoint Connector for MQTT3 (MQTT3 Connector) is an MQTT v3 compliant MuleSoft extension. The connector consumes and produces MQTT (Message Queuing Telemetry Transport) messages. MQTT3 Connector supports all MQTT version 3 functionalities including message retention, last will and testament messages, and persistent sessions.

Reviewer 2: MQTT is version 3.1 now. Is this MQTT v3.x-compliant? 
And then be consistent with how you do version v3 or version 3 (one or the other--it looks like in MQTT docs they use v3.1 etc)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Anypoint Connector for MQTT3 (MQTT3 Connector) is an MQTT v3 compliant MuleSoft extension. The connector consumes and produces MQTT (Message Queuing Telemetry Transport) messages. MQTT3 Connector supports all MQTT version 3 functionalities including message retention, last will and testament (LWT) messages, and persistent sessions.
```

For compatibility information and fixed issues, see the MQTT3 Connector Release Notes.

== Prerequisites

To use this connector, you must be familiar with:

* The MQTT protocol
* Anypoint Connectors
* Mule runtime engine (Mule)
* Elements and global elements in a Mule flow
* Creating a Mule app using Anypoint Studio (Studio)

Before creating an app, you must have:

* Credentials to access the <backend system> target resource
* Anypoint Platform

> * Anypoint Studio version <x.x> or later

Reviewer 2: 7.3?

> *// If your connector has other prerequisites specific to this connector, list them here.

Reviewer 2: Delete line 25 if it doesn't apply

== Common Use Cases for the Connector

> 

Reviewer 2: Add intro sentence. 
These are some common use cases for MQTT3 Connector:

Reviewer 2: Also, all of these list items should have a period at the end.

> * Connect to MQTT Brokers in hunt mode setup and publish messages

Reviewer 2: hunt mode setup?

> * Connect to MQTT Brokers in Reliable Messaging Schema and publish messages

Reviewer 2: Connect to MQTT brokers with reliable messaging schema and publish messages. 

I don't know about this... I don't think that should be capitalized and I'm not sure if it should be "in" or "with."

> * Connect to an MQTT Broker and set a LWT message

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Connect to an MQTT broker and set a LWT message.
```

* Connect to an MQTT Broker with TLS and listen for messages
* Listen for messages on a unique or multiple topics

> * Listen for messages on multiple topics using single-level or multi-level wildcard

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Listen for messages on multiple topics using single-level or multi-level wildcards.
```

* Publish messages to a topic
* Publish messages with retention

> * Publish messages to an MQTT Topic setting different QoS

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Publish messages to an MQTT topic and set different Quality of Service (QoS) levels.
```

[[configuration_settings]]
== Configure the Connector

MQTT3 Connector comes out of the box with a set of default values for both publishing and consuming messages.

> The only requirement is for you to configure which connection to use and that you specify a value for the Client ID

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The only requirement is that you must configure which connection to use and specify a value for the client ID,
```

which will uniquely identify that connection.

This example sets a minimal connection to a broker in `localhost`:

[source,example,linenums]
----
<mqtt3:config name="MQTT_Config">
    <mqtt3:connection clientId="smart-bentley-123">
        <mqtt3:connection-settings>
            <mqtt3:connection-string-mqtt3-authenticator url="tcp://127.0.0.1:1883" />
        </mqtt3:connection-settings>
    </mqtt3:connection>
</mqtt3:config>
----

> Another, equivalent, option would be to use the form authenticator if you want to specify each url field separately:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An equivalent option is to use the form authenticator if you want to specify each URL field separately:
```

[source,example,linenums]
----
<mqtt3:config name="MQTT3_Config">
	<mqtt3:connection clientId="smart-bentley-123" >
		<mqtt3:connection-settings >
			<mqtt3:form-mqtt3-authenticator host="0.0.0.0" protocol="TCP" port="1883"/>
		</mqtt3:connection-settings>
	</mqtt3:connection>
</mqtt3:config>
----

=== Define Global Defaults

> There MQTT3 Connector allows you to define multiple parameters to use as a default while consuming or

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
MQTT3 Connector enables you to define multiple default parameters while consuming or
```

> publishing messages. This way, you can define a global default behavior for all the operations associated with the config.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
publishing messages. This way, you can define a global default behavior for all the operations associated with the configuration.
```

> For example, you can specify the keep alive interval and time units, which specify the maximum period of time that the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, you can specify the keep alive interval and time units to set the maximum period of time that the
```

> connection will be kept alive without any messages being exchanged between client and broker. Or you can set the maximum

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
connection will be kept alive without any messages being exchanged between the client and broker. Or you can set the maximum
```

number of in-flight messages allowed.

[source,example,linenums]
----
<mqtt3:config name="MQTT_Config">
    <mqtt3:connection clientId="smart-bentley-123" maxInFlight="60" keepAliveInterval="60" keepAliveIntervalUnit="SECONDS">
        <mqtt3:connection-settings >
            <mqtt3:connection-string-mqtt3-authenticator url="tcp://127.0.0.1:1883" />
        </mqtt3:connection-settings>
    </mqtt3:connection>
</mqtt3:config>
----

== Set a Client ID

> A Client ID is mandatory and should uniquely identify an MQTT Connection to a broker. It is a recommended practice that

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A client ID is mandatory and is used to identify an MQTT connection to a broker. It is best to define a meaningful name that uniquely identifies a client or device that connects to an MQTT broker, 
```

> the Client ID should be a meaningful name that uniquely identifies a client or device that connects to an MQTT broker,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

and not a random string. The client ID can be set in the connection element of the configuration.

== Specify a Connection Protocol

> MQTT supports the following protocols which can be used to connect to and exchange MQTT messages with the broker:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
MQTT supports the following protocols, which can be used to connect to and exchange MQTT messages with the broker:
```

* TCP
* SSL/TLS
* WS
* WSS
* LOCAL

The protocol should be set in the connection string in the connector's configuration and will default to TCP if none is specified.

== Provide Credentials For Authentication

Authentication credentials are optional, but you can provide a username and a password if it is required.

> For example, you can provide a basic username and password:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, to provide a basic username and password:
```

[source,example,linenums]
----
<mqtt3:config name="MQTT_Config">
    <mqtt3:connection clientId="smart-bentley-123" username="crowley" password="theDemon666">
        <mqtt3:connection-settings >
            <mqtt3:connection-string-mqtt3-authenticator url="tcp://127.0.0.1:1883" />
        </mqtt3:connection-settings>
    </mqtt3:connection>
</mqtt3:config>
----

> Or you can also provide a client certificate to authenticate by setting a TLS context.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Or you can also provide a client certificate to authenticate the connection by setting a TLS context.
```

== Provide a Fail Over Server List

> There are certain deployment schemas that consist of more than one broker working together in order to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are certain deployment schemas that consist of multiple brokers working together in order to
```

provide clients with several connection endpoints. When there is more than one available server that the client can

> connect to, there are two possible scenarios. Either each mqtt server is operating separately or they might be working

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
connect to, there are two possible scenarios: Either each MQTT server is operating separately or they might be working
```

> together and sharing a state (cluster mode). Given these scenarios, we might want to specify how our mqtt client will

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
together and sharing a state (cluster mode), in which case, you might want to specify how the MQTT client will
```

behave in the event of a reconnection.

> By providing a fail over server list, the connector can iterate over it until a it has successfully established a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you provide a fail over server list, the connector can iterate over it until it successfully establishes a
```

connection with one of the provided endpoints.

[source,example,linenums]
----
<mqtt3:config name="MQTT_FailOver_Config">
    <mqtt3:resilient-connection clientId="smart-bentley-123" >
        <mqtt3:fail-over-servers >
            <mqtt3:fail-over-url protocol="TCP" host="127.9.0.2" port="1883"/>
            <mqtt3:fail-over-url protocol="TCP" host="127.0.0.3" port="1884"/>
            <mqtt3:fail-over-url protocol="TCP" host="127.0.0.1" port="1885"/>
        </mqtt3:fail-over-servers>
    </mqtt3:resilient-connection>
</mqtt3:config>
----

== Specify Clean Session

> Set the clean session flag to 'false' to indicate that the broker should remember the client next time it connects.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Set the clean session flag to 'false' to indicate that the broker should remember the client the next time it connects.
```

> While the client is offline, all its subscriptions will be saved and qos 1 and 2 messages that the client would want

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While the client is offline, all of its subscriptions are saved, and QoS 1 and 2 messages that the client would want
```

> to receive will be saved too, until it reconnects. Some brokers support creating a cluster of MQTT brokers (the nodes share a state),

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to receive are also saved until the client reconnects. 

Some brokers support creating a cluster of MQTT brokers (the nodes share a state),
```

Reviewer 2: Some brokers support the clustering of MQTT brokers in which the nodes share a state. In this case, setting the clean session flag to `false` can be useful if the node the connector is talking to happens to go offline. This enables the client to reconnect to a different node that is aware of the client's subscriptions so that any messages the connector might have missed while offline are delivered.

and setting the clean session flag to 'false' could be useful if the node the connector is talking to happens to go offline.
Then, the client could reconnect to a different node that will already know about subscriptions and deliver any messages
the connector might have missed while offline.

If clean session is set to 'true' (default), then when the connector disconnects, for whatever reason, all its subscriptions

> will be dropped and it will have to re-subscribe upon reconnection, also all messages sent for it while offline

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
will be dropped and it will have to resubscribe upon reconnection, and all messages sent for it while offline
```

will be lost.

[source,example,linenums]
----
<mqtt3:config name="MQTT_Config">
    <mqtt3:connection clientId="smart-bentley-123" cleanSession="false">
        <mqtt3:connection-settings >
            <mqtt3:connection-string-mqtt3-authenticator url="tcp://127.0.0.1:1883" />
        </mqtt3:connection-settings>
    </mqtt3:connection>
</mqtt3:config>
----

== Enable File Persistence

> Enabling file persistence, by setting enableFilePersistence flag to 'true', allows the mqtt client to persist its state

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Enabling file persistence by setting the `enableFilePersistence` flag to 'true' allows the MQTT client to persist its state
```

> to a file which is used to store any outbound or inbound in-flight messages the client might have with QoS ≥ 1. In contrast,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to a file that is used to store any outbound or inbound in-flight messages the client might have with QoS ≥ 1. In contrast,
```

> if enableFilePersistence flag is set to 'false', the client state will only be saved in memory and in the event of a crash

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
if the `enableFilePersistence` flag is set to 'false', the client state will only be saved in memory and in the event of a crash
```

> = MQTT3 Connector 1.0 - Mule 4

Reviewer 3: MQTT Version 3.x Connector

Author: For this one I changed it to MQTT 3 Connector, because it is the short name for Anypoint Connector for MQTT 3 (MQTT 3 Connector) so we have to be consistent in the entire docs.

Support Category: https://www.mulesoft.com/legal/versioning-back-support-policy#anypoint-connectors[Select]

> Anypoint Connector for MQTT3 (MQTT3 Connector) is an MQTT v3.x compliant MuleSoft extension. The connector consumes and produces MQTT (Message Queuing Telemetry Transport) messages. MQTT3 Connector supports all MQTT v3.x functionalities including message retention, last will and testament messages, and persistent sessions.

Reviewer 3: MQTT 3 Connector is an MQTT (Message Queuing Telemetry Transport) version 3.x protocol compliant Mulesoft extension. MQTT is a lightweight publish/subscribe messaging protocol designed for connecting remote devices with a small code footprint and minimal network bandwidth. MQTT today is used in a wide variety of industries, such as automotive, manufacturing, telecommunications, oil and gas.

The MQTT 3 connector consumes and produces MQTT messages and supports all MQTT v3.x functionalities including message retention, last will and testament messages, and persistent sessions.

For compatibility information and fixed issues, see the MQTT3 Connector Release Notes.

== Prerequisites

To use this connector, you must be familiar with:

* MQTT v3.x protocol
* Anypoint Connectors
* Mule runtime engine (Mule)
* Elements and global elements in a Mule flow
* Creating a Mule app using Anypoint Studio (Studio)

Before creating an app, you must have Anypoint Platform and Anypoint Studio.

> == Common Use Cases for the Connector

Reviewer 3: "MQTT 3 Connector"

> These are some common use cases for MQTT3 Connector:

Reviewer 3: MQTT 3

> * Connect to MQTT brokers in hunt mode setup and publish messages.

Reviewer 3: Before introducing MQTT specific terms such as "MQTT Broker", I recommend adding a section on "MQTT architecture" or "How does MQTT work". You can refer to the MQTT Publish/Subscribe architecture diagram here: https://mqtt.org/.

Reviewer 3: Let's describe "hunt mode" to a simpler wording.

Author: @emariotti3 for visibility

Author: Hi @tanumutreja, thank you for your comments!
Regarding the MQTT architecture section, we already specify in the _Prerequisites_ section that users must be familiar with **MQTT v3.x protocol** to use the connector, so they should be familiar with the terminologies of an MQTT broker and publish/subscribe messaging. 
If you consider that we should definitely document some of this information, I can add it for the final release by the end of August. 

I updated the "hunt mode" terminology to simpler wording.

Reviewer 3: @kevintroller, our goal should be to make documentation easy to understand and self contained, without adding too much content. I will suggest describing MQTT architecture very briefly but succinctly, so we have enough information for the reader right here. I agree it is not urgent and could come before the final launch. 

And, thanks for updating "hunt mode" definition!!!

* Connect to MQTT brokers in reliable messaging schema and publish messages.

> * Connect to an MQTT broker and set a last will and testament (LWT) message.

Reviewer 3: Plz simplify LWT.

* Connect to an MQTT broker with TLS and listen for messages.
* Listen for messages on a unique or multiple topics.
* Listen for messages on multiple topics using single-level or multi-level wildcards.
* Publish messages to a topic.
* Publish messages with retention.

> * Publish messages to an MQTT topic and set different Quality of Service (QoS) levels.

Reviewer 3: Plz briefly describe QoS in a sentence.

> == Configure the Connector

Reviewer 3: This section needs a better structure. Heres' what we need to describe clearly:

1. MQTT 3 Connector comes with default values for X, Y, Z. To use the connector with built-in defaults, user needs to set two   parameters: 1) connection and 2) clientID. 
2. Now show how to configure these parameters:
* Configuring  MQTT Connection
* Configuring ClientID.
3. Show an example.
4. Advances configuration: Here we show advance configuration options with details on each configuration parameter.
